Austin Development Services Short-Term Rentals
Ensure Your License is Active by July 1 - following significant changes to STR regulations last year, on July 1, 2026 the City of Austin will begin requesting removal of unlicensed properties from STR platforms. If you don't have an active license, please submit an application as soon as possible. We will also be launching a easier-to-use application and license management tool. Stay tuned for details on launch.
Short-term rentals (STRs) , residences rented for less than 30 consecutive days, are regulated by  City ordinance  and licensed annually by Austin Development Services Code Compliance. The goal of STR regulations is to encourage the safety of structures for people and pets, ensure their compatible existence with the surrounding environment, and allocate resources to provide education and address violations. What you will find on this page: Changes to Short-Term Rental Regulations STR Licensee/Operator Responsibilities STR Guest Responsibilities How to Apply Transferring a STR Renewing a STR Enforcement Resources Contact Us Changes to Short-Term Rental Regulations In February 2025, the Austin City Council adopted changes that made STRs an additional (accessory) use to all residential uses in all zoning districts as long as they have a valid operating license.  New Licensee/Operator Responsibilities In February 2025, the Austin City Council adopted changes that made STRs an additional (accessory) use to all residential uses in all zoning districts as long as they have a valid operating license. In October 2025, the following changes went into effect for property owners and tenant operators: All licenses will now be valid for two years instead of one year. A Certificate of Occupancy and proof of insurance are no longer required for new applicants or renewals. Tenants may now operate STRs, with the permission of their landlord. Single-family sites : An individual may operate up to two STR units on a site and may operate additional STRs elsewhere, provided they are at least 1,000 feet apart. Mixed-use sites: An individual may operate the greater of one unit or 25% of their units on sites with four or more residential units and at least one commercial use. Multi-family residential sites : An individual may operate the greater of one unit or 10% of their units. Local contact must live in the Austin Metro Area: Travis County, Williamson County, Hays County, Bastrop County, or Caldwell County. STRs must respond promptly to complaints and fix repeated violations. Notification to neighbors (see notifications section ) will occur at every renewal, instead of only when a new license is issued.  New Platform Regulations Regulations for online platforms that host STRs went into effect July 1, 2026. Platforms are required to: Have a license display field  Remove unlicensed listings upon request by the city  STR Licensee/Owner Responsibilities Licenses All STR owners/operators in the City of Austin must be licensed annually through the City. Visit the How to Apply section to learn more.  Hotel Occupancy Tax (HOT) Platforms (including but not limited to AirBnB, VRBO, Expedia, Booking.com, etc.) are required to collect and remit Hotel Occupancy Taxes (HOT) on behalf of Short-Term Rental (STR) owners. STR owners are required to file a report quarterly with the City of Austin noting the amount of HOT each platform collected and remitted on the STR owner’s behalf. If you have questions, please contact the Financial Services Department at hotels@austintexas.gov .  Paying and Reporting HOT Every person owning, operating, managing, controlling, or collecting payment for occupancy in any hotel (or short-term rental) must collect the Hotel Occupancy Tax (HOT) from their guests for the City. An Austin Finance Online (AFO) Account is required for STRs in Austin's full-purpose jurisdiction. Online Platforms: Platforms (including but not limited to AirBnB, VRBO, Expedia, Booking.com, etc.) are required to collect and remit HOT on behalf of STR owners. STR owners are required to file a quarterly report with the City of Austin noting the amount of HOT each platform collected and remitted on the STR owner’s behalf. Non-Online Platforms: For STR revenue generated from non-online platforms, STR owners are still required to collect and remit the HOT directly to the City of Austin quarterly.  You may pay online or call the City of Austin, Financial Services: Controller's Office at 512-974-2590 , then press 1, or email: hotels@austintexas.gov . Zero Report/No Rentals: If there were no rentals during the reporting period, a zero report must be filed . Exceptions Short-term rentals located in Austin's Limited Purpose Jurisdiction (LTD) are not subject to City of Austin Hotel Occupancy Tax but are required to obtain a license. Short-term rentals located in the Extra Territorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) do not need a license or pay local Hotel Occupancy Tax (HOT).   Notification When a new operating license is issued or an existing license is renewed, the City of Austin will supply a notice of the contact information for the local contact to all properties within 100 feet of the short-term rental. This will be done at the licensee’s or operator’s expense upon issuance of an STR operating license as part of the licensing process. Visit the How to Apply section to view fees. Information Packet Under section 4-23-41(E) of the City Code , a licensee/operator must provide renters a copy of an information packet in a conspicuous common area of the STR that includes: Name and contact information of the local contact designated on the STR application Restrictions on noise applicable under section 25-2-794 of the City Code Parking restrictions Trash collection schedule Information on relevant burn bans and water restrictions Applicable requirements of the American with Disabilities Act Other guidelines and requirements applicable to short-term rental uses Local Contact Information Under section 4-23-33 of the City Code , a licensee/operator who does not live within the Austin Metro Area must identify an individual or individuals to serve as local contacts and respond to emergency situations. A local contact must: Be present within the Austin Metro Area (Travis County, Williamson County, Hays County, Bastrop County, or Caldwell County) Be available to respond within two hours after being notified of an emergency by an STR guest, City employee or other individual references in section 4-23-33 of the City Code , during any 24-hour period If there is a change related to a local contact, the licensee must provide updated or new information to the director in writing within three business days by emailing STRLicensing@austintexas.gov .  STR Guest Responsibilities Beyond the owner/manager policies specific to individual STRs, there are common issues that create unreasonable and potentially unsafe conditions for STR guests and area residents: Loud Noise (parties, events, etc.) Advertising without a license (AirBnb, VRBO, etc.) Operating without a license City ordinance governs these matters in section 4-23-34 of the City Code . An STR licensee or guest may not: Use or allow the use of sound equipment that produces sound in excess of 75 decibels at the property line between 10 a.m. and 10 p.m. Use or allow use of sound equipment that produces sound audible beyond the property line between 10 p.m. and 10 a.m. Make or allow another to make noise or play a musical instrument audible to an adjacent business or residence between 10:30 p.m. and 7 a.m. Advertise or promote, or allow another to advertise or promote, the dwelling as a short-term rental if it is not licensed as such.  How to Apply STRs are allowed within the full and limited purpose jurisdictions of Austin, with some exceptions . Use the Jurisdiction Map to determine where your property is located.  An Austin Finance Online (AFO) Account is required for anyone owning, operating, managing, controlling, or collecting payment for occupancy of a STR in Austin's full-purpose jurisdiction.  Short-term rental operating licensing packets can be submitted online, in person, or by mail. Partial applications will not be processed. Fees are non-refundable.  Fees An operating license for a new STR is $836.30. This includes the $789 license fee and $47.30 notification fee. Fees are non-refundable.  View all STR-related fees on the Code Compliance Fee Schedule (PDF) .   Apply Online Step 1: Gather Required Documentation Copy of front of owner’s driver's license or government-issued identification Proof of tennancy, if applicable If the applicant is not the property owner, a completed, notarized Agent Authorization Form (PDF) is required. The form, which is completed by the property owner, must include all individuals who are authorized to act on the property owner's behalf regarding short-term rental licensing matters.  Step 2: Submit Through Austin Finance Online Complete the Austin Finance Online (AFO) application for your STR type. Follow instructions in AFO, upload the required documents, and pay fees associated with the application process. Fees can be paid via credit card or e-check.  Step 3: Email Driver’s License Email a copy of the front of the owner’s driver’s license or government-issued identification to STRdocs@austintexas.gov. If the STR location is different than the address on your driver’s license or ID, please include the address for the STR in your email.   Step 4: Processing and Approval Once you have submitted your application and supporting documents, and paid the application fee, your license will be in our queue for processing. Applications are not complete until all documents have been submitted and the application fee paid. Our current processing timeline is: Single-Family Homes: 6 - 8 weeks Multi-Family Homes: 8 - 10 weeks Incomplete Applications Submitting applications with missing documents will delay the processing of your application. During the review of your application our team will email you to collect any missing documentation. Please email STRdocs@austintexas.gov with your updated documentation. Make sure to include your STR property address in any emails you send us. If you do not submit missing documentation by the deadline provided, your application may be canceled without a refund. Approval If your application is approved, your operating license and required postings will be sent to the email address on the application. If you need to update that email address, please email us at STRlicensing@austintexas.gov .  STR licenses are valid for one year from the date of issuance. Visit the Renewing a STR License section to learn more. Denial If denied, you will be mailed a notice that includes information about your right to appeal.  Step 5: Responsibilities and Hotel Occupancy Taxes All short-term rentals operating in Austin must collect Hotel Occupancy Tax (HOT). As of April 1, 2025, STR booking platforms (e.g. AirBnB, VRBO, Expedia, Booking.com, etc.) must collect HOT on your behalf. You still are required to complete quarterly reports. Visit the STR Licensee/Operator Responsibilities section for more information on HOT and other responsibilities.  Apply in Person Step 1: Gather Required Documentation Completed printed application Type 1 Application (PDF) Type 2 Residential Application (PDF) Type 2 Commercial Application (PDF) Type 3 Application (PDF) Copy of front of owner’s driver's license or government-issued identification Proof of tennancy, if applicable If the applicant is not the property owner, a completed, notarized Agent Authorization Form (PDF) is required. The form, which is completed by the property owner, must include all individuals who are authorized to act on the property owner's behalf regarding short-term rental licensing matters.  Step 2: Make an Appointment Call 512-974-9144 Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. or email STRLicensing@austintexas.gov to schedule an in-person drop-off appointment at the Permitting and Development Center.  Step 3: Visit the Permitting and Development Center (PDC) Bring all required documents and payment method to the PDC for your appointment.  The PDC is located at 6310 Wilhelmina Delco Drive, Austin, Texas 78752 . Visit the PDC webpage to learn more about parking and other ways to get to the PDC.   Payment methods for in person appointments: Cash Check Money Order Credit/Debit Checks and money orders should be made payable to “City of Austin”.  Step 4:  Processing and Approval Once you have submitted your application and supporting documents, and paid the application fee, your license will be in our queue for processing. Applications are not complete until all documents have been submitted and the application fee paid. Our current processing timeline is:  Single-Family Homes: 6 - 8 weeks Multi-Family Homes: 8 - 10 weeks Approval If your application is approved, your operating license and required postings will be sent to the email address on the application. If you need to update that email address, please email us at STRlicensing@austintexas.gov .  STR licenses are valid for one year from the date of issuance. Visit the Renewing a STR License section to learn more. Denial If denied, you will be mailed a notice that includes information about your right to appeal.  Step 5: Responsibilities and Hotel Occupancy Taxes All short-term rentals operating in Austin must collect Hotel Occupancy Tax (HOT). As of April 1, 2025, STR booking platforms (e.g. AirBnB, VRBO, Expedia, Booking.com, etc.) must collect HOT on your behalf. You still are required to complete quarterly reports.  Visit the STR Licensee/Operator Responsibilities section for more information on HOT and other responsibilities.  Apply by Mail Step 1: Gather Required Documentation Completed printed application Type 1 Application (PDF) Type 2 Residential Application (PDF) Type 2 Commercial Application (PDF) Type 3 Application (PDF) Copy of front of owner’s driver's license or government-issued identification Proof of tennancy, if applicable If the applicant is not the property owner, a completed, notarized Agent Authorization Form (PDF) is required. The form, which is completed by the property owner, must include all individuals who are authorized to act on the property owner's behalf regarding short-term rental licensing matters. Step 2: Prepare Payment Method Checks and money orders are accepted for mail in applications. They should be made payable to the “City of Austin”.  Step 3:  Mail Documentation and Payment Mail all required documentation along with payment to:  USPS FedEx or Other Delivery Services DSD Finance- STR  COA-DSD-PDC PO Box 1088 Austin, TX  78767-1088 DSD Finance- STR  COA-DSD-PDC 2001 E. 5th St.  Austin, TX 78702  Step 4: Processing and Approval Once you have submitted your application and supporting documents, and paid the application fee, your license will be in our queue for processing. Applications are not complete until all documents have been submitted and the application fee paid. Our current processing timeline is: Single-Family Homes: 6 - 8 weeks Multi-Family Homes: 8 - 10 weeks Incomplete Applications Submitting applications with missing documents will delay the processing of your application. During the review of your application our team will email you to collect any missing documentation. Please email STRlicensing@austintexas.gov with your updated documentation. Make sure to include your property address in any emails you send us. If you do not submit missing documentation by the deadline provided, your application may be canceled without a refund. Approval If your application is approved, your operating license and required postings will be sent to the email address on the application. If you need to update that email address, please email us at STRlicensing@austintexas.gov .  STR licenses are valid for one year from the date of issuance. Visit the Renewing a STR License section to learn more. Denial If denied, you will be mailed a notice that includes information about your right to appeal.  Step 5: Responsibilities and Hotel Occupancy Taxes All short-term rentals operating in Austin must collect Hotel Occupancy Tax (HOT). As of April 1, 2025, STR booking platforms (e.g. AirBnB, VRBO, Expedia, Booking.com, etc.) must collect HOT on your behalf. You still are required to complete quarterly reports.    Visit the STR Licensee/Operator Responsibilities section for more information on HOT and other responsibilities.  Transferring a STR License Short-Term Rental Operating Licenses are non-transferable. You will need to apply for a new license. Visit the How to Apply section for more information.  Renewing a STR License STR licenses are valid for two years from the date of issuance. STR operating license renewals may be submitted 60 days before an active license expires. Short-term rental operating licenses can be renewed online, in person, or by mail. Partial applications will not be processed. Fees are non-refundable. Once a license is expired, you must reapply for a new license. If a license is expired for less than 30 days, you may request an extension instead of applying for a new license. Email STRlicensing@austintexas.gov to request an extension. If there has been a warranty deed applied with the county, email STRlicensing@austintexas.gov for guidance.   Fees STR operating license renewals are $385.30. This includes the $338 renewal fee and $47.30 notification fee. Fees are non-refundable. View all STR related fees on the Code Compliance Fee Schedule (PDF) .  Renew Online An Austin Finance Online (AFO) Account is required for anyone owning, operating, managing, controlling, or collecting payment for occupancy of a STR in Austin's full-purpose jurisdiction.  Step 1:  Submit through Austin Finance Online Follow instructions in AFO and upload the required documents and pay fees associated with the renewal process. Fees can be paid via credit card or e-check. Fees are non-refundable.  Step 2:  Processing and Approval As long as you have submitted your supporting documents and paid the renewal fee, we will have your property in our queue for processing and you can continue to rent out the property. Applications are not complete until all documents have been submitted and the application fee paid. Our current renewal processing timeline is: Single-Family Homes: 4 - 6 weeks Multi-Family Homes: 6 - 8 weeks Incomplete Renewals Submitting renewals with missing documents will delay the processing of your application. During the review of your application our team will email you to collect any missing documentation. Please email STRlicensing@austintexas.gov with your updated documentation. Make sure to include your property address in any emails you send us. If you do not submit missing documentation by the deadline provided, your application may be canceled without a refund. Approval If your renewal is approved, your operating license and required postings will be sent to the email address on the application. If you need to update that email address, please email us at STRlicensing@austintexas.gov .  STR licenses are valid for one year from the date of issuance. Denial If denied, you will be mailed a notice that includes information about your right to appeal.    Step 3:  Responsibilities and Hotel Occupancy Taxes All short-term rentals operating in Austin must collect Hotel Occupancy Tax (HOT). As of April 1, 2025, STR booking platforms (e.g. AirBnB, VRBO, Expedia, Booking.com, etc.) must collect HOT on your behalf. You still are required to complete quarterly reports.  Visit the STR Licensee/Operator Responsibilities section for more information on HOT and other responsibilities.  Renew in Person Step 1: Make an appointment Call 512-974-9144 Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. - 4 p.m. or email STRLicensing@austintexas.gov to schedule an in-person drop-off appointment at the Permitting and Development Center.   Step 2: Visit the Permitting and Development Center (PDC) Bring all required documents and payment method to the PDC for your appointment. The PDC is located at 6310 Wilhelmina Delco Drive, Austin, Texas 78752 . Visit the PDC webpage to learn more about parking and other ways to get to the PDC. Payment methods for in person appointments Cash Check Money Order Credit/Debit Checks and money orders should be made payable to “City of Austin”.  Step 3: Processing and Approval As long as you have submitted your supporting documents and paid the renewal fee, we will have your property in our queue for processing. Applications are not complete until all documents have been submitted and the application fee paid. Our current renewal processing timeline is: Single-Family Homes: 4 - 6 weeks Multi-Family Homes: 6 - 8 weeks Approval If your renewal is approved, your operating license and required postings will be sent to the email address on the application. If you need to update that email address, please email us at STRlicensing@austintexas.gov .  STR licenses are valid for one year from the date of issuance. Denial If denied, you will be mailed a notice that includes information about your right to appeal.  Step 4:  Responsibilities and Hotel Occupancy Taxes Every person owning, operating, managing, controlling, or collecting payment for occupancy in any short-term rental must collect the Hotel Occupancy Tax (HOT) from their guests for the City. A tax payment account is required through Austin Finance Online before a license will be issued.   Visit the STR Licensee/Operator Responsibilities section for more information on HOT and other responsibilities.  Renew by Mail Step 1: Prepare payment method Checks and money orders are accepted for mail in renewals. They should be made payable to the “City of Austin”.  Step 2: Mail documentation and payment Mail all required documentation along with payment to: USPS FedEx or Other Delivery Services DSD Finance- STR  COA-DSD-PDC PO Box 1088 Austin, TX  78767-1088 DSD Finance- STR  COA-DSD-PDC 2001 E. 5th St.  Austin, TX 78702  Step 3: Processing and Approval As long as you have submitted supporting documents and paid the renewal fee, we will have your property in our queue for processing. Applications are not complete until all documents have been submitted and the application fee paid. Incomplete Renewals Submitting renewals with missing documents will delay the processing of your renewal. Our team will reach out via email to collect any missing documentation. Missing items should be emailed to STRdocs@austintexas.gov . Make sure to include your property address in any emails you send us. If we email you to collect missing documents, you will be given a deadline to respond, after which the renewal may be canceled without a refund. As long as you have submitted your supporting documents and paid the renewal fee, we will have your property in our queue for processing. Our current renewal processing timeline is: Single-Family Homes: 4 - 6 weeks Multi-Family Homes: 6 - 8 weeks Approval If your renewal is approved, your operating license and required postings will be sent to the email address on the application. If you need to update that email address, please email us at STRlicensing@austintexas.gov .  STR licenses are valid for one year from the date of issuance. Denial If denied, you will be mailed a notice that includes information about your right to appeal. Step 4: Responsibilities and Hotel Occupancy Taxes Every person owning, operating, managing, controlling, or collecting payment for occupancy in any short-term rental in the full purposed jurisdiction must collect the Hotel Occupancy Tax (HOT) from their guests for the City. A tax payment account through Austin Finance Online is required before a license will be issued. Visit the STR Licensee/Operator Responsibilities section for more information on HOT and other responsibilities.  Enforcement To report a violation, call Austin 3-1-1 .  Code Connect is a program that allows residents to contact DSD Code Compliance and talk to an experienced facilitator. You can call 512-974-2633 or email . If you have an STR enforcement inquiry, contact Supervisor Eric Gardner at 512-974-2362 or email Eric.Gardner@austintexas.gov, Tuesday-Friday, 7 a.m. to 6 p.m.  Resources Short-Term Rental License History Open Data Portal: Short-Term Rental Locations Austin Build + Connect: Public Search (Operating License)   Contact Us   For STR licensing questions, contact Licensing Intake at 512-974-9144 or email STRlicensing@austintexas.gov   Monday – Friday, 8 a.m. - 4 p.m.