Tourism | Barcelona City Council
Specific content in other languages:
Other Barcelona City Council websites
Instructions for keyboard users
This menu requires arrow keys to be able to use it. The menu has up to three levels:
Second level: sub-options for elements from the first level
Third level: sub-options for elements from the second level
Browse using the vertical arrow keys on the first level of the menu.
Use the right arrow key to display the second level.
Browse on the second level using the vertical arrow keys.
Use the Escape key to get back to the first level.
Use the right arrow key to display the third level.
Browse the third level by using the vertical arrow keys.
Use the Escape key to get back to the second level.
Alternatively, use the Enter key to display any level.
Instructions for screen readers and keyboard users
This menu requires arrow keys to be able to use it. The menu has up to three levels:
Second level: sub-options for elements from the first level
Third level: sub-options for elements from the second level
Browse using the horizontal arrow keys on the first level of the menu.
Display and browse on the second level using the vertical arrow keys.
Use the Escape key to get back to the first level.
Use the right arrow key to display the third level.
Browse the third level by using the vertical arrow keys.
Use the Escape key to get back to the second level.
Alternatively, use the Enter key to display any level.
Government Measure for Tourism Management 2024 - 2027
For years, Barcelona City Council has prioritized the comprehensive management and governance of tourism as an essential element to guarantee a balanced and sustainable city and improve the integration of tourism into the city.
High-traffic Areas (HTAs) are urban areas around iconic places in the city that experience a large influx of people, both residents and visitors.
Barcelona Destination Tourism Sustainability Plan (PSTD)
The City Council has developed the Barcelona Destination Tourism Sustainability Plan (PSTD) to respond to the 4 main axes defined by the European Union itself: the green and sustainable transition, energy efficiency, digital transition and competitiveness.
Barcelona, a benchmark city in tourism
Urban tourism has become a global phenomenon in recent years that also affects our city. The visitor economy employs more than 163,000 people, represents around 13% of GDP and generates annual spending of more than 10 billion euros.
Barcelona City Council is working on a strategy to manage tourist activity, promote territorial deconcentration, diversify the offer and visitor profile, commit to strategic promotion and promote balance with everyday life.
Lines of action of our tourist management
Management of high tourist traffic areas
Taxation of the tourism sector and its contribution to the residents
Coexistence, safety and prevention
Economic development and social return
Geographical strategy and tourism offer
Promotion, communication and reception
An exhibition revisits the memory of the sports venues that have made history in Barcelona
An exhibition at the Museu Olímpic i de l'Esport Joan Antoni Samaranch traces, through photographs, the venues that have shaped Barcelona’s sporting history over more than a century.
Conferences and cultural activities are highlights of July for Destination Barcelona
Barcelona is kicking off July with a packed calendar of conferences and a wide-ranging programme of cultural activities, as shown by the latest Tourism Outlook report for Destination Barcelona.
Citizen Board for Respectful Behaviour constituted
An open agreement with citizens and associations to strengthen respectful behaviour, joint responsibility and coexistence in public space.
Municipal operation for the Grand Départ of the Tour de France
The event brings significant disruptions to circulation, public transport and various urban services on 2, 4 and 5 July.
Horari il·luminació Font Màgica - Fonts de Montjuïc
Where: Font Màgica - Fonts de Montjuïc
Formació anual Pla #formacioturismecat
When: Del 01/01/2026 al 31/12/2026
Convocatòria XXII Premis CETT Fundació – Projectes emprenedors 2026
When: Del 30/04/2026 al 19/10/2026
Where: Presentació per internet
Destinació Barcelona Sostenible
Citizen Help and Information Offices (OAC)
010 Citizen Information and Assistance Telephone Service
The latest news in tourism management, directly to your mailbox!