Home  >  Government  >  Departments  >  Regulatory and Economic Resources  >  Consumer and Neighborhood Protection  >  Neighborhood Compliance  >  Short-Term Vacation Rentals
Short-Term Vacation Rentals
A short-term vacation rental is any dwelling unit or residence including, but not limited to, any unit or group of units in a condominium, cooperative or apartment building that is rented in whole or in part to a transient occupant for a period of less than 30 days or one calendar month, whichever is less.
Complete standards and requirements for short-term vacation rentals can be found in  Section 33-28 of the Miami-Dade County Code . It is the responsibility of all property owners in unincorporated Miami-Dade County or their responsible parties who wish to rent out their home for short periods of time to know and comply with all the requirements of the ordinance. For properties located within a municipality, the owner or responsible party must contact the respective municipal government for its regulations.
Vacation rentals must be  licensed  by the State of Florida, including registration with the  Florida Department of Revenue  for tax purposes, and must comply with all applicable state laws.
Any person or business who rents or leases any transient accommodations or short-term rentals for a period of 6 months or less is required to register for a  Tourist Tax Account  to collect and remit monthly Convention and Tourist Development taxes. If your business is located in the unincorporated area of Miami-Dade County, you must obtain a Miami-Dade County Local Business Tax Receipt. Any business operating within a municipality in Miami-Dade County must hold both a city and a county receipt to remain in compliance. Short-term rentals typically fall into categories such as apartments/hotels/motels/boarding homes, or timeshare properties. To learn more about how to apply, visit the Office of the Tax Collector’s Local Business Tax Receipt webpage. Contact your municipality to learn if it also requires a Local Business Tax Receipt.
Responsible parties must  obtain a Certificate of Use (CU) prior to listing and advertising the property on any peer-to-peer platform. The cost is $139.44 per certificate. Upon applying for a CU, a property inspection will be scheduled. The cost for the inspection is $97.84 , plus a $17.42 surcharge , for a total of $246.78 . A new CU must be obtained annually at the same cost. You can apply for a new CU prior to or on the day that the current CU expires. If a property does not pass inspection, or if it has outstanding fines or liens for violations of this code, a CU will not be granted.
Whenever a property is being used as a vacation rental, the CU must be displayed in a conspicuous location that is clearly visible to guests within the vacation rental and must include, at a minimum, the name, address and phone number of the responsible party and the maximum occupancy of the vacation rental.
For each vacation rental, the responsible party must comply with the following regulations:
Maximum occupancy The maximum overnight occupancy for vacation rentals is up to a maximum of 2 persons per bedroom, plus 2 additional persons per property, up to a maximum of 12 persons, excluding children under 3 years of age. Responsible party onsite The Responsible Party must reside for more than six months per calendar year in the property being offered as a vacation rental. The rental of the property may occur at the same time that the Responsible Party is residing there. This applies to properties designated as Estate or Low Density Residential on the  CDMP Land Use Plan Map  only. There are no residency restrictions in the other land use categories.
Sexual offenders and sexual predators The responsible party is required to obtain confirmation of a nationwide search from the Miami-Dade County Police Department or other law enforcement agency that the prospective transient occupant is not a registered sexual offender or sexual predator as a result of a conviction of a sexual offense, as defined in  Section 21-280 . If the vacation rental property is within 2,500 feet of a school, pursuant to  Section 21-281  it is a violation of this section for a sexual offender or sexual predator to occupy the property for a period of 4 or more days in any month.
The responsible party may call the 311 Contact Center to obtain assistance or referrals to determine whether a prospective transient occupant is a sexual offender or predator and to determine whether a residence is 2,500 feet from a particular school. If the vacation rental property is within 2,500 feet of a school, it will be a violation to allow any person to occupy the property with knowledge that such person is a registered sexual offender or registered sexual predator in any jurisdiction.
Search sexual offenders and predators by residence
Search sexual offenders and predators in your neighborhood
Swimming Pools If there is a swimming pool onsite, the responsible party must ensure that the swimming pool has in place at least one of the pool safety features listed in  Section 515.27 , Florida Statutes, (i.e., pool safety barrier, pool safety cover, pool alarm, or door latch/alarm) prior to use of the property as a vacation rental by any person under the age of six. This provision shall not apply to a vacation rental with a community swimming pool onsite, such as in a condominium, as determined by the Director. Compliance with this provision shall be in addition to compliance with  Section 33-12 of the Miami-Dade County Code pertaining to swimming pool fences. The responsible party must also comply with all residential requirements pertaining to  solid waste disposal ,  noise ,  public nuisance ,  parking ,  advertising  and  pets , as well as with all other applicable local, state, and federal laws, regulations, rules, and standards, including, but not limited to, those pertaining to anti-discrimination, disability, and fair housing.
In addition, the responsible party must:
not display any advertisements and signs that are prohibited by the property’s zoning district regulations;
provide written notice to transient occupants, prior to occupancy of the vacation rental, of the vacation rental standards and regulations for noise, public nuisance, vehicle parking, solid waste collection and common area usage. This information must also be posted inside the rental property;
provide notice to prospective transient occupants at the time the property is listed as a vacation rental of any limitations on the property pertaining to access for the disabled;
provide notice to the homeowner’s association or condominium/cooperative association or board, if any, that the property will be used as a vacation rental and adhere to all policies, rules, and regulations of such association or board pertaining to vacation rentals;
promptly address and report any violations of this section or of such other law or regulation of which the responsible party knows or should know to the Department or law enforcement, as appropriate, as well as to the peer-to-peer or platform entity;
ensure that any violations regarding the rental of the property are able to be promptly addressed and resolved 24 hours a day, 7 days per week; maintain a register with names and dates of stay of all guests, including but not limited to all transient occupants and their invitees, which shall be open to inspection by the County.
Violations to the standards provided in these regulations as well as other provisions of the County Code are subject to the civil penalties schedule provided in  Chapter 8CC  of the Miami-Dade County Code of Ordinances. Operating a vacation rental without a Certificate of Use is a violation of the County Code and the civil penalty schedule is as follows:
2nd Offense within 24 months of 1st offense = $1,000
3rd Offense within 24 months of most recent of the preceding offenses as well as subsequent offenses = $2,500
Penalties accrue and a lien may be placed on the property if the fines, enforcement costs and administrative costs are not paid or the violation not corrected. Additionally, once a citation has been issued for violation of Section 33-28 of the Miami-Dade County Code, a violation fee will be applied to the total cost of obtaining a CU. The violation fee is $231.90 , plus double the cost of the CU certificate.
To report a possible neighborhood code violation, call 311 or email [email protected] .
For more information, call the Neighborhood Regulations Division at 786-315-2552.
Notice Regarding Anonymous Complaints
Florida Statute 125.69 requires that a code inspector only proceed to investigate an anonymous complaint if the code inspector determines, based only on the information from the complaint, that the violation reported presents an imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare or imminent destruction of habitat or sensitive resources. If a code inspector does not have enough information or determines that the information provided does not indicate an imminent threat, then the anonymous complaint will not be investigated.
If you wish to remain anonymous, you understand that your complaint will not be investigated if the code inspector determines they do not have enough information or that the information provided does not indicate an imminent threat.
If you do not want to remain anonymous, an investigation can proceed regardless of whether there is an imminent threat, but you must provide both your name and address.
Regulatory and Economic Resources
11th Floor Miami, FL 33128
305-375-2877 | [email protected]
Herbert S. Saffir Permitting and Inspection Center
Contact Us Request Public Records