Office of Special Enforcement 311 Search all NYC.gov websites
Select Tips for Hosts Prohibited Buildings List Registration Laws and Rules Enforcement Registration and Listing Data
Short-Term Rental Registration and Verification by Booking Services
On January 9, 2022, New York City adopted Local Law 18, also known as the Short-Term Rental Registration Law. The law requires short-term rental hosts to register with the Mayor's Office of Special Enforcement (OSE), and prohibits booking service platforms (such as Airbnb, VRBO, Booking.com, and others) from processing transactions for unregistered short-term rentals.
Starting September 5, 2023, OSE's initial phase of Local Law 18 enforcement will focus on collaborating with the booking platforms to ensure they are using the city's verification system, that all verifications are occurring correctly, and that the platforms stop processing unverified transactions.
Short-term rental hosts are strongly encouraged to abide by all legal requirements that predated Local Law 18, the enforcement of which is ongoing in response to complaints. Learn more about registration .
Visit the Short-Term Rental Registration application portal
The Short-Term Rental Registration Law also requires OSE to maintain a Prohibited Buildings list. This list is comprised of buildings where short-term rentals are prohibited, either by the law (such as NYCHA or entire rent-regulated buildings) or by the leases and occupancy agreements for the building. Owners can notify OSE that short-term rentals are prohibited in their building. Learn more about the Prohibited Building List .
Visit the Prohibited Buildings List application portal
Short-term rental listings for units in "Class B" multiple dwellings, which have been approved by the City of New York for legal short-term occupancies, are exempt from the registration requirement, as are rentals for 30 consecutive days or more. Please note that Class B refers to legal occupancy, and not to the Department of Finance tax classification. Read more about OSE's Class B Multiple Dwelling list.
nyc.gov home Services Events Your government 311 Contact NYC government Register to vote Emergency alerts Careers Website feedback Accessibility resources Privacy policy Terms of use About nyc.gov content
City of New York. 2025 All Rights Reserved. NYC is a trademark and service mark of the City of New York.