Furnished Vacation Rentals: Rules to Follow
toc#handleMouseEnter mouseleave->toc#handleMouseLeave">
Cette page est aussi disponible en français
Are you thinking of renting out your property as a furnished vacation rental? Would you like to report a potentially unauthorized furnished vacation rental? Find out what steps to take.
Information In response to the proliferation of key boxes, the Mayor of Paris issued an ordinance in 2025 prohibiting their installation on street furniture. In the event of a violation, the key box will be removed. More information on Key boxes banned in public spaces - City of Paris
The market for furnished short-term rentals has grown significantly in Paris in recent years, particularly with the emergence of rental platforms. This phenomenon has led to both a decline in traditional private rental housing and a rise in housing costs, while also affecting the quality of life in neighborhoods. As a result, renting out a furnished tourist apartment is subject to strict rules in Paris. Violations of these rules are punishable by fines.
Overview of the 4 scenarios regarding furnished vacation rentals
Note : A "meublé de tourisme" is an entire rental unit that can be rented by the day, week, or month . Renting out a single room within the landlord’s primary residence
does not require prior authorization or registration,
except for accommodations used as bed-and-breakfasts ( Offering Bed-and-Breakfast Accommodations - City of Paris ).
Check the rules before renting a vacation rental
If you live in a condominium
The rental of furnished vacation properties must comply with the condominium rules and regulations and respect the peace and quiet of the building.
As of November 21, 2024, all new condominium bylaws must specify whether furnished short-term rentals are permitted.
Existing condominium rules may be amended to prohibit short-term furnished rentals in units other than those used as primary residences. This prohibition may only be enforced in condominiums where the rules prohibit any commercial activity in the units.
Any co-owner who has registered for the online service for reporting furnished vacation rentals must notify their property manager.
The landlord must authorize subletting as a furnished vacation rental.
Any tenant who has registered for the online service for reporting furnished vacation rentals must notify the property manager.
Important Furnished short-term rentals are strictly prohibited in public housing units. The tenant risks termination of the lease in addition to financial penalties.
If you want to rent out your primary residence as a furnished vacation rental, the limit is 90 days per year
What is a primary residence?
A primary residence is a home occupied for at least 8 months of the year, unless otherwise required by professional obligations, health reasons, or force majeure. Generally speaking, it refers to the home where one usually resides throughout the year and where personal and professional ties are strongest.
1. Register your vacation rental online
Online Registration of Vacation Rentals
This mandatory declaration allows you to obtain a registration number immediately. This number must be included in all rental listings you publish.
Key takeaways You can rent out your primary residence for up to 90 days a year.
You want to rent out a property that is not your primary residence as a furnished vacation rental
The property in question may be a second home or any other apartment you own.
1. Obtain approval for a change of use with compensation
If you wish to rent out a property that is not your primary residence as a short-term vacation rental, the property is classified as hotel accommodation and reduces the supply of long-term rental housing. It is therefore necessary to offset this loss. This offset involves converting non-residential spaces (such as offices or retail spaces) into residential units.
You can find all the information you need about
changing the use of residential properties and compensation on Paris.fr . In the “use change simulator,”
select “furnished vacation rentals.”
2. Change the use of a residential property to hotel accommodations
You can obtain all the necessary information regarding a change of use by contacting the Welcome and Customer Service Office ( BASU ) of the City of Paris’s Urban Planning Department. This procedure is mandatory prior to any registration as a furnished tourist accommodation.
3. Register the vacation rental online
Online Registration of Vacation Rentals
This mandatory declaration allows you to obtain a registration number immediately. This number must be included in all rental listings you publish.
Attention The property may only be rented out after all of the above permits have been issued. Unlike when renting out a primary residence, these permits are required starting on the first day of the rental period.
Are you looking to rent a commercial or workshop space as a furnished vacation rental?
To verify whether your premises are classified as commercial or industrial, please refer to the relevant question in the FAQ section.
1. Obtain prior authorization in accordance with the municipal ordinance governing commercial and industrial premises
You must apply for permission to convert your business or workshop by submitting your request through the " Urban Planning Procedures " online service.
2. Register the vacation rental online
Online Registration of Vacation Rentals
This mandatory declaration allows you to obtain a registration number immediately. This number must be included in all rental listings you publish.
Attention The property may only be rented out after all of the above permits have been issued. Unlike when renting out a primary residence, these permits are required starting on the first day of the rental period.
Are you interested in renting another type of space (e.g., office, garage, etc.) as a furnished vacation rental?
To find out what your space is used for, please refer to the relevant question in the FAQ section.
permission to change the use of the premises to hotel accommodations
You must apply for permission to change the use of your premises by submitting your request through the " Démarches d’urbanisme " online service.
2. Register the vacation rental online
Online Registration of Vacation Rentals
This mandatory declaration allows you to obtain a registration number immediately. This number must be included in all rental listings you publish.
Attention The property may only be rented out once all of the above permits have been issued. Unlike when renting out a primary residence, these permits are required starting on the first day of the rental period.
You can report a potentially unauthorized vacation rental
Attention The City of Paris is responsible solely for ensuring compliance with administrative requirements, such as obtaining a registration number or the necessary prior authorizations. Any other issues (violations of condominium rules, noise disturbances, property damage, rental disputes, etc.) fall under private law and are not within the City of Paris’s jurisdiction. If you encounter this type of situation, you can contact a legal advisor at the Paris Departmental Housing Information Agency , which offers free, personalized legal advice. The City of Paris also offers free and confidential legal consultation services.
Inspections are conducted by
sworn officers of the municipal housing department. They are authorized to
They may verify any statement
and request that owners, tenants, or other occupants provide documents
proving their occupancy of the premises.
In order for an investigation
to be conducted in the building in question with sufficient evidence,
you must report the following information to us at sollicitations.paris.fr :
location of the premises in question: address, building, stairwell, floor,
door, unit number, and any building codes; the name of the owner or tenant of the premises; the URL link(s) to the listing(s) posted on the rental platform(s).
The confidentiality of reports is
Penalties for non-compliance with regulations
Renting out one’s primary residence as a furnished vacation rental for more than 90 days a year is punishable by a fine of up to €10,000 for each year the limit is exceeded; Renting out a second home as a furnished tourist accommodation without authorization to change its use is punishable by a fine of up to €100,000, plus a penalty payment of up to €1,000 per day per square meter until the situation is brought into compliance; Renting out commercial or industrial premises as a furnished vacation rental without authorization is punishable by a fine of up to €25,000; Renting out another type of property as a furnished vacation rental without a zoning permit is a criminal offense; Failure to register a vacation rental is also punishable by a fine of up to €5,000; Criminal penalties may also be imposed for making false statements, concealing, or attempting to conceal rented premises, with penalties of up to one year in prison and a fine of €80,000.
Attention Deliberately obstructing the work of municipal housing officials is punishable by a fine of €2,250.
Frequently Asked Questions
Can't find the answer to your question about vacation rentals? Please check the FAQ below:
How can I find out what my space is used for?
There are only two types of use: residential use and non-residential use (retail, crafts, offices, etc.). Residential use is defined by Article L. 631-7 of the French Building and Housing Code The use of a property may have been changed if a decision authorizing a change of use with compensation was issued or if these premises were offered as compensation since 1970. To determine whether a property has been authorized with compensation or offered as compensation: consult the Information on Decisions to Change Use Since 1970 (arcgis.com) The City of Paris is not authorized to rule on the use of a property and does not issue administrative certificates of use classification. To verify the permitted use of your premises, you should consult a legal professional (notary, attorney, etc.). If you are the owner of the premises, you may find it helpful to consult your notarized deed of purchase, which may contain information regarding the use of your property.
regarding the intended use or change of use of the premises fall
exclusively within the jurisdiction of the
Urban Planning Department of
the City of Paris, Building Permits and Street Landscape Division
- Reception and User Services Office (BASU) .
Do the outbuildings attached to my primary residence have the same status?
If the ancillary premises are separate from your primary residence (such as a guest room or an adjoining but independent space), they are not considered part of the same housing unit as your primary residence. To rent them out as furnished vacation rentals, you must therefore take the following steps .
Is a change of use required if my premises do not meet current habitability standards?
All residential spaces are covered by
these regulations, regardless of the rules regarding compliance with
habitation standards. For more information, please refer to the
For any information regarding tax obligations related to renting out a furnished vacation rental, please contact your local Business Tax Office
Would you like more information about registering a vacation rental and obtaining a registration number? Please see the FAQ below:
The declaration must be filed by the landlord who wishes to offer their property for furnished short-term rental. It cannot be filed on behalf of the property management company handling the rental, if applicable.
How do I obtain a registration number?
To obtain a registration number, submit your tourist accommodation declaration online via the dedicated online service . The registration number will appear on the screen as soon as you have submitted your declaration. It will also be sent to you by email, and you will be able to download a summary at any time.
Before you begin, have your most recent property tax notice
for this property on hand so that you can enter the property ID in Step 3 of your
declaration. This ID is located at the bottom of page
If you do not have a housing tax notice (recent move,
housing tax exemption, etc.), you can still obtain
the registration number immediately. Simply check the box
“I identify my property differently” (Step 3). You can then
continue with your declaration.
I can't seem to fill in all the required fields
All fields in the online form are required unless otherwise noted. Here are a few tips if you have trouble filling them out: - ID : see previous question - Floor : if your property is a duplex located on the 1st and 2nd floors, for example, enter “1 and 2,” or “house” for a single-family home… - Apartment/door number : if you don’t have an apartment number or co-ownership unit number, specify where the door is located in relation to the staircase (e.g., left, front…)
My circumstances have changed (I’ve moved, received a classification, changed my email address, ended my lease, etc.): what to do
If you need to update the information you have filed or if you cease operations, you must deactivate the original filing and submit a new one. You will then be issued a new number, which you must update in your listings; the old registration number can no longer be used. Procedure: > Log in to the online service ; > Click on “Start”; > Enter your “My Account” credentials (the username and password are the ones you provided during your initial registration); > Then click “Log In.” The status dashboard for your declaration will appear. Simply click the “Withdraw my declaration” button.
View the brochure on renting furnished vacation rentals - January 2025
regarding violations of condominium rules, nuisances ,
or landlord-tenant issues, please contact the
Departmental Housing Information Agency . The City of Paris also offers free , anonymous, and confidential legal consultation services.
For any other questions , you can contact the City of Paris
at sollicitations.paris.fr or by mail to City of Paris - Housing and Habitat Department - Housing Protection and Tourist Rental Oversight Division – Tourist Rental Unit - 103 avenue de France 75013 PARIS
Open data list of furnished tourist accommodations that have been granted permission to change their use with compensation
Service-public.fr: Official website of the French government - Tourist rental or residential rental
Entreprises.gouv.fr: Directorate General for Enterprises – Tourist Accommodation
Tourism Code, Sections L.324-1 through L.324-2-1
Tourism Code, Sections D.324-1 through R.324-8
Building and Housing Code, Sections L.631-7 through L.631-9