Short-Term Rentals City of Toronto
Community People Housing Shelter Rental Housing Rights Information
A short-term rental is all or part of a dwelling unit rented out for less than 28 consecutive days in exchange for payment. Short-term rentals include bed and breakfasts, but exclude hotels, motels, student residences owned or operated by publicly funded or non-profit educational institutions. It also excludes other accommodations where there is no payment.
Short-term rental operators are people renting their homes or rooms on a short-term basis, for a period of less than 28 consecutive days. Effective June 1, 2025 to July 31, 2026, the City of Toronto will temporarily increase the mandatory Municipal Accommodation Tax (MAT) rate on transient accommodations from 6 per cent to 8.5 per cent. These operators need to  register with the City  and are required to collect and remit an 8.5% Municipal Accommodation Tax (MAT) on all rentals.
A short-term rental company is any company facilitating or brokering short-term rental reservations online and receiving payment for this service (for example, Airbnb and Booking.com). All short-term rental companies are required to obtain a licence to operate in the City of Toronto.
The City’s regulations aim to allow residents to rent only their principal residence out on a short-term basis while preserving other units for long-term rental housing.
Residents can call 311 or  submit a complaint online  to report issues related to short-term rentals, such as noise, waste and concerns that people are renting homes that are not their principal residence.
Registration, tax and renewal information for people who want to short-term rent their home.
Licensing information for short-term rental companies, such as Airbnb or Booking.com.
10 Things You Should Know About Short-Term Rentals
Information for residents and visitors staying at short-term rentals in Toronto.
Type (don t copy and paste) your email address into the box below and then click Subscribe to receive updates about short-term rental regulations. You will receive an email with instructions to confirm your subscription.
You can unsubscribe at any time.
The personal information on this form is collected under the authority of the City of Toronto Act, 2006. The information is used to allow the City to send you an email to confirm your wish to subscribe to a City of Toronto e-notice. Questions about this collection may be directed to the ListServ Administrator, Strategic Communications Division, City of Toronto, Toronto City Hall, 7th floor, West Tower, Toronto M5H 2N2. Email: mlsfeedback@toronto.ca . By subscribing to one of the City of Toronto’s e-updates you are providing express consent, as defined by the Canadian Anti-Spam Legislation (CASL), to receive email updates from the City of Toronto.