B.C.'s short-term rental legislation - Province of British Columbia Home / Housing and tenancy / Short-term rentals / B.C.'s short-term rental legislation More topics Short-term rentals Short-term rental registration Provincial principal residence requirement Information for visitors and local governments Compliance and enforcement B.C.'s short-term rental legislation Definitions for BC's short-term rental legislation Coordination agreements Subscribing for short-term rental updates B.C.'s short-term rental legislation Last updated on April 1, 2026 Like many jurisdictions, B.C. is regulating short-term rentals to help return more short-term rental units into homes for people. Learn more about B.C.'s Short-Term Rental Accommodations Act and regulations on this page. On this page:
Overview of B.C.'s Short-Term Rental Accommodations Act
Helping more people find a place to live
Strengthening local government tools to enforce short-term rental bylaws
Establishing provincial oversight of short-term rentals
Short-term rentals versus tenancies
Overview of B.C.'s Short-Term Rental Accommodations Act
B.C. is facing a housing crisis, with a shortage of all forms of attainable housing, including long-term rentals.   The rise of the short-term rental of entire homes has taken away much needed homes for British Columbians, making it more challenging to find affordable long-term places to live .
The purpose of the Act is to:
Help more people find a place to live
Give local governments stronger tools to enforce short-term rental bylaws
Establish a new provincial role in the regulation of short-term rentals
The rules help balance the need to create more long-term homes for residents, including people who work in the tourism and hospitality industry, with the need to accommodate visitors, particularly in smaller communities and those communities that are heavily reliant on tourism.
The Act appl ies to short-term rentals being offered to the public including:
Platforms where people reserve and pay for the accommodation ,  which may include,  for example, Airbnb, VRBO, or Booking.com
Offers on other web listing forums , for example, Facebook Marketplace, Kijiji, and Craigslist
Listings in classified ads in newspapers
The Act  does not apply to:
Hotels, motels, hostels, and resorts
First Nation Reserve lands
Nisga’a Lands or the Treaty Lands of a Treaty First Nation (unless the Nation chooses to opt into all or part of the legislation through a coordination agreement with the Province)
A tent or other temporary shelter   ​
Rentals over 90 days long per booking
Helping more people find a place to live
Principal residence requirement
The provincial principal residence requirement limits short-term rentals to:
The host's prinicipal residence , the usual place where they make their home
Plus one secondary suite  or accessory dwelling unit  on the same property
This requirement does not apply everywhere. Find more information on the provincial principal residence requirement on the principal residence requirement page.
Changes to legal non-conforming use protections
Protections for non-conforming use of property no longer apply to short term rentals. In some areas, these protections allowed short-term rental hosts to continue to use their property for short-term rentals even when it was against the bylaws set by the local government.
Protections for non-conforming use of property continue to exist for other land uses
Information about non-conforming use is available through local governments
Strengthening local government tools to enforce short-term rental bylaws
Display of business licence
Many local governments require a business licence for a host to operate a short-term rental. S hort-term rental hosts must  display a valid business licence number on their listing in areas where a business licence is required by the local government.
If a listing does not comply with a business licence requirement where required by the local government, the short-term rental platform must remove the listing at the request of the local government.
To assist local governments with better short-term rental bylaw enforcement, short -term rental platforms are required to share information about short-term listings on a monthly basis.
This information is confidential and will not be disclosed to the public .
Increased fines and tickets
The maximum fine that regional districts can set for prosecutions of bylaw offences under the Offence Act  increased from $2,000 to $50,000. This is consistent with the maximum fines for municipalities under the Community Charter .
T he maximum municipal ticketing fine that a  local government may set  under the Community Charte r Bylaw Enforcement Ticket Regulation  and Vancouver Charter By-Law Enforcement Ticket Regulation increased from $1,000 to $ 3,000 per infraction, per day . This  fine can be applied in:
New business licensing authority for regional districts
Regional districts are able to regulate and licence short-term rentals and other businesses, in similar ways to municipalities.
Learn more aout regional district business licencing in B.C. in the  Regional district business regulation
Establishing provincial oversight of short-term rentals
Provincial short-term rental registry
As of May 1, 2025, all short-term rental hosts, platforms, and strata hotel platforms operating in B.C. must be registered with the provincial short-term rental registry . This ensures that all hosts and platforms operating in B.C. are following the provincial rules.
Hosts are required to include a provincial registration number on their listing, and short-term rental platforms are required to validate registration numbers on host listings against provincial registry data.
To process registration applications, the new provincial short-term rental registry team will:
Review registration applications and issue decisions
Work with platforms to support validation of registration numbers
Provincial compliance and enforcement unit
To ensure the provincial rules are followed, the new provincial compliance and enforcement unit will:
Administer penalties for violations
Short-term rentals versus tenancies
In general, a booking made on a short-term rental platform is not covered under the Residential Tenancy Act  as usually the accommodation is being occupied for vacation or travel purposes. However, there are circumstances in which a tenancy may be established.
Find more information on what types of accommodation are covered by the Residential Tenancy Act at this page: Types of rental housing situations
If there is uncertainty about the legal requirements related to a specific accommodation arrangement, it is best to speak with a lawyer.
In addition to the information on this page, please also see the October 16, 2023, Short-Term Rental Accommodations Act news release, backgrounders, and technical briefing presentation .
News release translations are available in: Arabic (pdf 298 KB), Japanese (pdf 488 KB) Korean (pdf 258 KB), Persian (Farsi) (pdf 275 KB) and Vietnamese (pdf 215 KB)
News release and backgrounder translations are available in: French (pdf 293 KB), Chinese simplified (pdf 627 KB), Chinese traditiona l (pdf 740 KB), Hindi (pdf 182 KB), Punjabi (pdf 322 KB) and Tagalog (pdf 246 KB)
Subscribe  for emailed updates on the Short-Term Rental Accommodations Act, regulations and related information.
The information on this webpage on the Province of British Columbia’s Short-Term Rental Accommodations Act and regulations is provided for the user’s convenience as a basic starting point. It is not a substitute for getting legal advice or other professional advice. If there is a conflict between the information on this webpage and the legislation or regulations, the legislation and regulations prevail. The interpretation of legislation is also affected by court decisions.  This information may be subject to change, including due to the legislative process. More topics Contact information If you have questions about B.C.'s short-term rental legislation, please contact the ServiceBC call centre at 1-833-828-2240  or email  STRregistry@sbc.gov.bc.ca .
ServiceBC is open Mon to Fri from 7:30 am to 5:00 pm with help available on the phone, toll free, in 140 languages and for people who are deaf, hard of hearing or speech impaired.
Did you find what you were looking for? Yes No The B.C. Public Service acknowledges the territories of First Nations around B.C. and is grateful to carry out our work on these lands. We acknowledge the rights, interests, priorities, and concerns of all Indigenous Peoples - First Nations, Métis, and Inuit - respecting and acknowledging their distinct cultures, histories, rights, laws, and governments.